 select the data source for your screen section—choose the entity for which you want to create the screen: 
          Screen Section Data Source selection  566×360 13.1 KB         
 After selecting the data source entity, you will see all its fields in the Toolbox. You can then drag and drop the fields you want to display on your screen. 
 Form field types will be automatically assigned based on the entity field types: 
          Form field creation  537×449 9.04 KB         
 If you want to change the default field type, select it from the list in the entity tab, go to the Widgets tab in the Toolbox, and drag and drop the desired field type (selecting in one tab and choosing type in another). For example, here we create a ColorPicker field: 
          Field type selection  486×416 10.7 KB         
 In a similar manner, add all the fields you want to display on your screen, adjust their positioning, and save the screen section. 
   Data Structure creation 
 Before creating a screen, you must first have a data structure for it. 
 In the Model Browser under  Data  /  Data Structures , right-click on the package folder of your application and select  New  /  Data Structure : 
          New Data Structure creation  474×285 9.19 KB         
 In the data structure detail editor, name your data structure using the entity or screen name for which you are creating this structure: 
          Data Structure details  453×309 8.27 KB         
 Now add an entity to your data structure by right-clicking on its name and choosing  New  /  Entity : 
          Adding Entity to Data Structure  378×326 9.03 KB         
 In the detail editor, select the entity you’re interested in: 
          Entity selection for Data Structure  486×479 11.8 KB         
 The name field will be filled in automatically. Save it, and this is what you will see: 
          Data Structure Entity details  487×466 12.5 KB         
 The most important part here is the  AllFields  property. When it is set to  True , the data structure includes all fields from the entity. If you only need some fields, set it to  False , and you can select the specific fields you require. 
 You can do this in the Model Browser under  Data  /  Data Structures  by right-clicking on the package folder of your application and selecting  New  /  Field : 
          Adding new Field to a Data Structure Entity  287×398 10.2 KB         
 We won’t dive deeper into data structure composition in this tutorial. For now, you can leave the  AllFields  property set to  True . More information about data structures you find in this  article . 
   Screen creation 
 Now it’s time to create a new screen using your previously created data structure and screen section. 
 In the Model Browser under  User Interface  /  Screens , right-click on the package folder of your application and select  New  /  Screen : 
          New Screen creation  397×459 13.4 KB         
 As the first step in the screen editor, choose the data source for your screen: 
          Data Source selection for Screen  470×259 6.67 KB         
 Now, drag and drop your screen section from the Toolbox onto your screen: 
          Screen with one Screen Section  1028×373 17.8 KB         
 Save it, and your screen is ready. 
 You can create screens with multiple screen sections, but we won’t cover that in this tutorial. 
   Element Properties 
 Whether you’re creating screens manually or using the action wizard, it’s useful to know how to modify the properties of individual elements on the screen, i.e., in the screen sections. 
 All the properties you need can be found in the right bar, under the tab next to the Model Browser called  Properties : 
          Screen field Properties  396×654 14.6 KB         
 Here are some important properties to consider: 
 
  Caption : This is the text that appears next to the form element on the screen. 
  Roles : Defines which roles can access this element. 
  Multiline : Set to  True  for textboxes. 
  ReadOnly : If set to  True , the user will not be able to edit the field. 
 
 The Screen Section itself also has its own Properties. Here you can, for example, set whether you can create ( ShowNewButton ), delete ( ShowDeleteButton ) and duplicate ( HideCopyButton ) records: 
          Screen Section Properties  400×269 7.