# How to upgrade the ORIGAM platform

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-upgrade-the-origam-platform/3996

@vikter (2025-03-24 08:26:58Z):
   
 This guide demonstrates how to upgrade all components of the ORIGAM platform, namely the Server and Architect. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for proceeding 
 To follow along, you must meet the following prerequisites: 
 
  Database server installed  
  ORIGAM Server installed  
  ORIGAM Architect installed  
  Project created in ORIGAM Architect  
 
 
 The ORIGAM platform is still under development, with new features continuously being added and bugs being fixed. The release cycle for new versions is monthly, meaning that 12 new versions with either minor or major changes are released every year, in addition to often having sub-versions—patches for each release. 
 The reasons you need to upgrade are: 
 
 If a new functionality is released that you are interested in and need 
 When there is a fix for a critical bug 
 Once a year, if not otherwise needed 
 
   Continuous upgrade 
 We recommend upgrading the platform continuously, even when there isn’t a specific need, such as acquiring a new feature. While the platform will still function without continuous upgrades, upgrading after skipping several versions can become more difficult and time-consuming, requiring additional effort for implementation and testing. 
 Each new version introduces various changes, all of which are detailed in the  release notes . For example, you can find release notes for the version actual at the time this article is being written  here . Pay particular attention to any breaking changes and metamodel updates, as these affect backward compatibility. 
 If you’re upgrading across multiple versions, we recommend reading the release notes for each version between your starting version and the new version. This will give you a comprehensive understanding of all the changes that will be implemented with the new release. 
   Single platform version 
 It is crucial to understand that  each project is tied to a specific version of the platform , which includes a particular version of the ORIGAM Server, Architect, and application metamodel. If you wish to upgrade to a newer version, you must upgrade the entire platform to ensure the versions of the Server, Architect, and metamodel are consistent. 
 On the  Github ORIGAM release page , for example, you may see the following: 
          Platform version in Github  586×799 32.4 KB         
 These versions of Server and Architect work with a specific version of the metamodel and the version of your application model should match that. More about versioning of your model you can find in this  article . 
 Now, let’s examine the upgrade process for each component in detail. 
   Architect upgrade 
 The Architect desktop application isn’t upgraded in place; instead, you install and run a new version alongside the current version, and potentially all previous versions that you have installed. 
 Therefore, upgrading Architect follows the same process as installing it from scratch, as described in this  article . 
 If you’re using MS Windows, you will typically find all Architect versions under C:\Program Files (x86)\ORIGAM: 
          ORIGAM Architect installation folder  556×267 12.6 KB         
 The Architect folder name is set when it is first installed, so it may be different on your system. 
 Having different versions of Architect installed separately allows you to run all of them independently and keep every project in a particular version of the platform. 
 
   To avoid confusion between versions, remember managing your Architect shortcuts or taskbar icons properly. 
 
   Server upgrade 
 To upgrade your ORIGAM Server, you need to download a new image and create a new container from it in Docker. This enables you to run different Server versions in separate containers and be able to switch among them. More details are in this  article . 
 The procedure is the following: 
1, Delete the container with the Server you want to upgrade (or just stop it if you want to keep it) 
2, Edit the Docker deployment script specifying your ORIGAM Server target version 
3, Run Docker deployment script to create a new container from a new image 
 There is also a couple of useful things you need to know. 
 When a new project is created, the Docker .cmd file defaults to the  origam/server:master-latest.linux  image, meaning the latest published Server image is used. If you wish to target a specific Server version, you can change it to something like  origam/server:2025.3.1.3760.linux  for example. 