 script to create a new container from a new image 
 There is also a couple of useful things you need to know. 
 When a new project is created, the Docker .cmd file defaults to the  origam/server:master-latest.linux  image, meaning the latest published Server image is used. If you wish to target a specific Server version, you can change it to something like  origam/server:2025.3.1.3760.linux  for example. 
          ORIGAM Server images in Docker  853×445 25 KB         
 If you just want to upgrade the master-latest image, you can pull the update directly using the image actions (icon with three dots): 
          Image update action  1188×414 32.2 KB         
 
    We strongly recommend that you build client applications on released stable versions, so if you create a new project using the “Master-latest” build, please upgrade your ORIGAM Server, Architect and application model when a new stable version is released. 
 
   Model upgrade 
 The metamodel, often referred to simply as the “model,” contains the content definitions for all XML files that define a project or application and just like anything else the default metamodel evolves over time — new items are added, and existing items may be changed and so on. 
 If you update ORIGAM Server and Architect, they contain the current version of the metamodel. You must then convert your application model to this version of the metamodel to make both versions compatible. This conversion is handled automatically by Architect, which updates your model to the current metamodel version when you first open your project. 
 In addition to the model you created, your project also contains at least some system packages such as Root or Security, and when their model changes, your project needs to be updated as well.  ORIGAM Server and Architect need to have system packages that are always up-to-date . 
 The model upgrade of all the system packages is done by downloading the  origam-model.zip  file, which you can find in the Assets: 
          Assets files  1532×698 56.8 KB         
 This zip file contains the system model packages and the translation folder (l10n): 
          All default packages  354×410 32.9 KB         
 
   The safest way to do this is to delete the files of all the system packages used in your project model (at least Security and Root) and then copy the new version. 
 
 Changes can also occur at the data level, so the update may include deployment scripts that modify the database structure (new table or field), data content of system packages or functions (new application role) or it can include even a new database procedure. ORIGAM Architect will also take care of running these scripts automatically when you first open your project. 
 When you open your project in a newer version of Architect, all the updates will happen automatically once you load any of the affected packages. However, if you try to load your model in an older version of Architect, it will be rejected. If no changes have occurred in the metamodel between two specific Architect versions, this will not be an issue. 
   Before you start 
 Upgrading a platform can be a complex process that can affect both your project model (system packages) and its database (structure, content, and procedural functions), so it is good practice to create a good recovery point in case something goes wrong. Yes, we mean good old backups   
 What to back up before upgrading: 
 1. Model – save the “pre-upgrade” version to both local and remote Git repositories. 
 2. Database – make a backup (“dump”) of the project database, including both structure and data. 
 3. Custom component data – builds and plugins for both frontend and backend. 
   Project upgrade 
 To open projects created in older versions of Architect in a new version after upgrading, you need to copy the  OrigamSettings.config  file from the old Architect folder to the new one. 
 For example, if you upgraded from version 2025.1 to 2025.3 and you are using MS Windows, copy the file  OrigamSettings.config  from: 
  C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Roaming\ORIGAM\2025.1  
to 
 C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Roaming\ORIGAM\2025.3 . 
 The path of the file you can always find in the Connection Configuration screen located in the main menu under   File  in Architect: 
          OrigamSettins.config path in the Connection Configuration  664×297 13 KB         
 Once you have done this, you can open your project in the new version of Architect. 