# How to filter items in drop-down menu or screen

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-filter-items-in-drop-down-menu-or-screen/3968

@vikter (2025-02-20 10:34:46Z):
   
 This guide will demonstrate how to filter the list of items displayed in a drop-down menu. In the last chapter is will also demonstrate how to filter the data viewed in screens. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for further work 
 To follow along, you must meet the following prerequisites: 
 
  Running database server  
  Running ORIGAM Server  
  Project created in ORIGAM Architect  
  Entities and fields created  
  Lookups created  
  User screens created  
  Running client application in your browser  
 
 Once these prerequisites are set up, log into the client application using the  username and password you created  during the project setup. 
 
 In certain cases, you may need to filter the items in your drop-down menu to display a specific selection of records. 
 For instance, in a Task Manager application, you need to assign tasks to responsible individuals using a drop-down menu in a field named  Assigned to . However, there are by default some system accounts visible in the menu that you need to filter out: 
          User list including system accounts  388×322 5.03 KB         
 Similarly, you may need to filter only certain items from the existing data in your screens, such as only completed tasks. 
 To achieve this, you’ll work with Filters, Filter Sets, Data Structures, and Lookups (used in drop-down menus). 
   Basics 
 The basic thing to understand here is that  Filters  are defined at the database entity level. You create each filter for a given entity once and then you can use it repeatedly in different parts of the model. This means you don’t have to create the same filter multiple times, just once. So please remember that filters are part of database entities. You can think of them as a kind of “property” of a database entity. 
 Another thing is how to use these filters. You do this using a  FilterSet  in a  DataStructure , where you add the necessary filters. So, for example, if you want to filter data in a screen, you create a filter set in the data structure on which the screen section in that screen is built and add all the filters you need for your purpose to it. 
 The final utilisation of filters is then at the  ScreenReference  element level, where you use the  Method  property to determine which filter set should be used when loading the screen via the user menu. Here, for example, you can specify that for a certain user role, the screen will be loaded in one way (using filter set 1) and for another user with a different role in another way (according to filter set 2). 
 This hierarchy—database entity/filter set in the data structure/screen reference—needs to be well understood. 
   Filters 
   Default Filters 
 There are several default filters already defined in the default ORIGAM model. For example, users are located in the  Business Partner  entity under the  Partner Management  model part, and they come with the following default Filters: 
          Business Partner default filters  283×629 11.5 KB         
   Custom Filters 
 To create your own Filters, follow this procedure: 
   Create a new Filter 
 In the Model Browser, go to  Data  /  Entities , under the package folder of your application, right-click on the Entity for which you want to create the Filter and select  New  /  Filter : 
          New Filter creation  420×686 21.2 KB         
 In the Filter details, name the Filter (e.g.,): 
          Filter details  438×268 7.66 KB         
 Save it. 
   Add Function(s) 
 In the Model Browser, right-click on the Filter you just created and select  New  /  Function Call : 
          New Function Call creation  344×511 12.6 KB         
   Configure Function(s) 
 In the Function Call properties, provide the  Name  and select the  Function  you want to use: 
          Function Call details  453×608 16.7 KB         
 Save it, and expand the Function Call you just created in the Model Browser: 
          Function Call parts  205×222 3.26 KB         
 Next, set up the Left and Right parts of the filter condition using different options: 
          Filter setup  400×271 8.88 KB         
 For example, to filter Tasks after the deadline or with a deadline today, set up the following Filter using a system Parameter named  parCurrentDate : 
          Filter example  191×146 3.