# How to filter items in drop-down menu or screen

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-filter-items-in-drop-down-menu-or-screen/3968

@vikter (2025-02-20 10:34:46Z):
   
 This guide will demonstrate how to filter the list of items displayed in a drop-down menu. In the last chapter is will also demonstrate how to filter the data viewed in screens. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for further work 
 To follow along, you must meet the following prerequisites: 
 
  Running database server  
  Running ORIGAM Server  
  Project created in ORIGAM Architect  
  Entities and fields created  
  Lookups created  
  User screens created  
  Running client application in your browser  
 
 Once these prerequisites are set up, log into the client application using the  username and password you created  during the project setup. 
 
 In certain cases, you may need to filter the items in your drop-down menu to display a specific selection of records. 
 For instance, in a Task Manager application, you need to assign tasks to responsible individuals using a drop-down menu in a field named  Assigned to . However, there are by default some system accounts visible in the menu that you need to filter out: 
          User list including system accounts  388×322 5.03 KB         
 Similarly, you may need to filter only certain items from the existing data in your screens, such as only completed tasks. 
 To achieve this, you’ll work with Filters, Filter Sets, Data Structures, and Lookups (used in drop-down menus). 
   Basics 
 The basic thing to understand here is that  Filters  are defined at the database entity level. You create each filter for a given entity once and then you can use it repeatedly in different parts of the model. This means you don’t have to create the same filter multiple times, just once. So please remember that filters are part of database entities. You can think of them as a kind of “property” of a database entity. 
 Another thing is how to use these filters. You do this using a  FilterSet  in a  DataStructure , where you add the necessary filters. So, for example, if you want to filter data in a screen, you create a filter set in the data structure on which the screen section in that screen is built and add all the filters you need for your purpose to it. 
 The final utilisation of filters is then at the  ScreenReference  element level, where you use the  Method  property to determine which filter set should be used when loading the screen via the user menu. Here, for example, you can specify that for a certain user role, the screen will be loaded in one way (using filter set 1) and for another user with a different role in another way (according to filter set 2). 
 This hierarchy—database entity/filter set in the data structure/screen reference—needs to be well understood. 
   Filters 
   Default Filters 
 There are several default filters already defined in the default ORIGAM model. For example, users are located in the  Business Partner  entity under the  Partner Management  model part, and they come with the following default Filters: 
          Business Partner default filters  283×629 11.5 KB         
   Custom Filters 
 To create your own Filters, follow this procedure: 
   Create a new Filter 
 In the Model Browser, go to  Data  /  Entities , under the package folder of your application, right-click on the Entity for which you want to create the Filter and select  New  /  Filter : 
          New Filter creation  420×686 21.2 KB         
 In the Filter details, name the Filter (e.g.,): 
          Filter details  438×268 7.66 KB         
 Save it. 
   Add Function(s) 
 In the Model Browser, right-click on the Filter you just created and select  New  /  Function Call : 
          New Function Call creation  344×511 12.6 KB         
   Configure Function(s) 
 In the Function Call properties, provide the  Name  and select the  Function  you want to use: 
          Function Call details  453×608 16.7 KB         
 Save it, and expand the Function Call you just created in the Model Browser: 
          Function Call parts  205×222 3.26 KB         
 Next, set up the Left and Right parts of the filter condition using different options: 
          Filter setup  400×271 8.88 KB         
 For example, to filter Tasks after the deadline or with a deadline today, set up the following Filter using a system Parameter named  parCurrentDate : 
          Filter example  191×146 3.06 KB         
 Alternatively, to filter out system Users (those with no email set), use the following Filter: 
   
   Custom constant 
 If you need to filter by a specific value in your data, you can create your own constant ( Data  /  Constants  / you package) and then use it in the filter. 
 For example, if you want to filter only completed tasks, simply create a constant called  Status_Done  with the value  Done  and then use it in your filter on the right side. 
 More details on Filters can be found  here . 
   Filter Sets 
 Filter Sets are based on Entity Filters, defined in Data Structures, and are used in Lookups when loading data. 
 To create a Filter Set for a drop-down menu, follow this procedure: 
   Create a new Filter Set 
 In the Model Browser, go to  Data  /  Data Structures , under the package folder of your application, right-click on the Lookup  Data Structure  for which you want to create a Filter Set and select  New  /  Filter Set : 
          New Filter Set creation  360×405 12.2 KB         
 
   Remember to create the Filter Set for the Data Structure used in the Lookup you want to use in your drop-down menu. Such Data Structure names follow our naming convention and start with  Lookup , e.g.,  LookupTask_Name_GetId . 
 
   Name your Filter Set 
 In the Filter Set properties, name your set using the naming convention  GetBy  + parameter, e.g.: 
          Filter Set settings  279×219 4.71 KB         
 Save it. 
   Add Filter(s) 
 Right-click on your Filter Set and select  New  /  Filter : 
          New Filter addition to Filter Set  362×419 10.6 KB         
   Configure Filter(s) 
 In the Filter Set Filter details, select your  Entity  and  Filter , and the  Name  will be created automatically. For example: 
          Filter Set Filter detail  350×318 7.44 KB         
 Save it, and your Filter Set will be ready to use. 
   Lookup settings 
 When defining a Filter Set in Lookup Data Structures, you need to configure them in the Lookup details using the  ListMethod  property. If the Filter Set is properly configured in the Lookup Data Structure, you can select it here. For example: 
          ListMethod in Lookup details  382×556 15.7 KB         
 Save it, and now your Lookup will display only items based on your Filter Set settings. 
   Identifying the right Data Structure 
 In some cases, you may not be sure which Data Structure you need to create a Filter Set for. To choose the right Data Structure, follow these steps: 
   Open the Screen 
 In the Model Browser, go to  User Interface  /  Screens , under the package folder of your application, double-click on the Screen name where the drop-down menu you want to work with is located. 
   Select the Screen Section 
 In the Screen editor, select the Screen Section where the drop-down menu you want to edit is located. If there is only one Screen Section in your Screen, the entire block may look like this: 
          Screen Section selection in Screen  1034×461 25.3 KB         
   View the Properties 
 Then, in the right bar of the Architect, switch to the  Properties  tab: 
          Properties tab in the right bar  1293×940 98.4 KB         
   Open the Screen Section 
 In the Screen Section Properties, double-click on the icon next to the Screen Section ( Panel ) name: 
          image  397×427 10.5 KB         
 This will open the right Screen Section for editing. 
   Open the Lookup 
 Next, in the right bar, go to the Field  Properties  tab and double-click on the icon next to the  DataLookup  name: 
          Screen Field Properties  400×528 13.8 KB         
   Open the Data Structure 
 In the Lookup properties, double-click on the icon next to the  ListDataStructure  name: 
          Lookup Properties  447×554 16.1 KB         
   Verify the Data Structure 
 Now you can confirm that you are editing the correct Data Structure used in the drop-down menu you want to edit. This Data Structure, for example, has the following Filter Sets defined: 
          Data Structures in the Model Browser  358×456 11.2 KB         
 For instance, the Filter Set named  UsersOnly  is defined to filter out system Users with no email set using the Entity Filter named  GetUsersWithEmail  that we have already shown: 
          Filter for User accounts  223×522 8.68 KB         
   Filter data in your screens 
 Another possible use of filters is in user screens when displaying data, whether for editing or just viewing. From the model perspective, this means using filters in screen sections located within screens or tabs. 
 The creation of filters, filter sets, and their usage in data structures is the same as described above. The difference in this use case is that you set up the filter used in a data structure filter set so that it filters the target entity (used in the data structure). 
 It may sound complicated, but once you look at the model elements, it should become clearer. 
 For example, consider a data structure for a screen where we want to view  Tasks  filtered by their status — in one tab only those with the status  Done , and in the other tab those with all other statuses (designated as “not done”). 
          Data structure with entities and filter set  362×277 30.4 KB         
 The entity  Task  is included in the data structure twice (as  Task  and  TaskDone ), and each time a different filter is applied — once for tasks that are done ( Task_GetByStatus_Done ) and once for the remaining tasks ( _NotDone ). 
 The filter setting in this data structure filter set may look like this: 
          Data structure filter settings  427×267 31.1 KB         
 This setting means that the data structure entity  TaskDone  will be filtered using the filter  GetByStatus_Done  created under the database entity  Task  that is used in that data structure. 
 The last model elements you need to set up in order to make this work in the client application are: 
 
 
 The screen section properties where the filtering will be applied — here, you need to select the correct entity from your data structure in the  DataMember  property for that screen: 
          Screen section properties  472×352 47.1 KB         
 
 
 The screen reference that opens the screen — here, in the  Method  property, you need to choose the filter set used in your data structure on which the screen section is based: 
          Screen reference properties  460×162 21.4 KB         
 
 
 In our example, the data member is either  BusinessPartner.Task  or  BusinessPartner.TaskDone , as shown in the data structure: 
          Data structure entites  215×155 11.9 KB         
 So, to sum up, if you want to create a screen with a custom data filter, you need to: 
 
 Create a custom filter for your database entity. 
 Create a data structure for your screen. 
 Create a filter set in that data structure. 
 Add your filter to that filter set. 
 Create a screen section based on your database entity. 
 Create a screen based on your data structure and place your screen section into it. 
 Set the screen section property  DataMember  to the correct entity in your data structure. 
 Create a screen reference and select the filter set used in your data structure in its  Method  property. 
 
 After completing all these steps, the data in your screen will be filtered as required. 
 If your screen already exists and you only want to apply filtering to it, you only need to complete steps 1, 3, 4, and 7. 

---

@vikter (2026-03-20 15:14:47Z):
   Custom filter examples 
   Filter that will select only items not assigned to the current user 
 Function:  NotEqual  
Left: Field reference (e.g.:  refAssignedToId ) 
Right: Parameter reference to system parameter  parCurrentUserId  