# Workflow Context Store

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/workflow-context-store/2058

@system (2017-12-31 23:00:00Z):
 A Sequential workflow executes various tasks. If these tasks need to pass information between each other, you need Contexts. Contexts also work hierarchically within  blocks . 
 A Context store is a data container. Each task can produce some data, which is then saved into the Context. The following task can read the data from the context (and produce data in a different context or update the source context). 
 In programming terms, Contexts would be something like variables. But Contexts are much more capable than simple variables. They automatically provide the following functionalities: 
 
 Merging 
 Original Values 
 XML 
 
   Merging 
 When a task finishes and produces some results, the resulting data is saved into the Context. They are not just simply replaced. Leveraging the knowledge of the whole data model, ORIGAM allows you to do enhanced merging easily. 
 Let’s say you want to load data from the database, update some records and then save the data. For that, you need to create a workflow: 
 
 Calling the  DataService.LoadData  service call will load the data 
 Calling the  TransformationService.Transform  service call will take the data and produce a copy with updated values 
 Calling the  DataService.StoreData  service call will save the updated data 
 
 For this, you need to create one Context: 
 
  Data  
 
 The first service will load data from the database and since the Context is empty, all the records will appear in the dataset. 
 After the second service call the resulting records will be looked up and updated in the Context of the following way: 
 
 Every record will be looked up by the primary key in their respective entity 
 Records will be compared and the Context will be updated with the changes. 
 
   Original Values 
 When the Context gets updated, the original values (The ones loaded from the database) will always be preserved. So the Context will always store the original values and the current values (updated by different tasks in the sequential workflow). 
 These values will be used especially when saving the data for concurrency checks. 
   XML 
 Any structure-based data contained in a context can be accessed as XML, e.g. when using  Data Transformation Service . 