# Rules

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/rules/2343

@system (2017-12-31 23:00:00Z):
 Rules are simple or complex functions that define what you would sometimes call “calculated fields”. They are what a formula would be to a spreadsheet. A rule mostly depends on other fields, e.g. a total price = quantity * unit price. As you always want price to equal to this formula, you can call it a rule. 
 There are different ways how to calculate data: 
 
 Manual data entry (through UI) 
 XSLT transformation 
 Custom function 
 Rule 
 
 How do you know if your formula should be a rule? 
 
 If it should calculate automatically during UI data entry — it must be a rule. There is no other way to interactively calculate anything in the user interface. 
 If the same formula would be used inside multiple transformations — it is most probably a rule as rules prevent repeating logic. Once you define a rule, it is always being applied, no matter which way you touch the data (unless you access them without applying the rules, then you can overwrite anything you wish). 
 
 Rule examples: 
 
 Total price 
 An address loaded when user selects a customer from a dropdown box (although the address could be updated manually later without being overwriten — see below) 
 Price loaded by a combination of product and customer and an order date 
 
 No matter how many rules you define, they will always calculate untill all of them are satisfied. This greatly simplifies how you define your business logic. You just define how different fields should be calculated and the engine just manages it. So when you change the customer, the price (which is dependent on it) will recalculate automatically. Since the unit price just changed, the total price will be recalculated subsequently but you dont’t have to care about that much. It will just work. 
 In order to differentiate the rules from the other data changes, we will call those Actions. 
 Action examples: 
 
 Change order status 
 Generate invoice 
 Update paid amount 
 
 As you can see, actions change the data on purpose at some point in time. The rules keep the data constrained all the time. 
 You should think carefully about your business logic and define well what rules are and what actions are. 
   Calculating data with possible manual update 
 Let’s have the use case where “default” data load in the UI but you want the user to change them anyway. And as this is a UI, you must use rules. So this is only a partly-rule. At some point you want it to behave like a rule and at another point you don’t. 
 There are two ways: 
 
 
 Define a new field in the entity, based on which you decide whether the rule will work or not and then put this field as a condition to the rule. E.g.  IsManualPrice  field in the invoice price line would define if the user is changing the price or not. The upside is that not only the rule (which will only evaluate if the flag is set to false) will work as expected, you also have a clear way how to see in your data that the price is rule based or manual. So the user will first have to mark the “manual” flag and then they would be able to change the price. It’s great to combine this with a row level security rule that reacts to the “manual” flag, too. The price field is read only with manual=false and writeable when true. You will be grateful for this approach later. 
 
 
 A special case is when you want the rule to work when the user is editing the record through UI but want to keep data intact using subsequent actions as with every action  all rules are re-checked and recalculated  for many reasons. So you do not want to reload the customer’s address again at some point when the user could have changed it already. But you always want to reload it after the user changes the customer interactively. 
 In such a case you do the following: Define a field dependency between the desired fields (in our case add a dependency to the address field pointing to the customer id) and make the address rule conditional, so it only evaluates if the address (yes the rule’s target field) is empty. The entity dependency will always reset the address field, so the rule will fire. Then the user can change the address freely and as it is filled in, it won’t be touched again. Not in the UI and not by any subsequent actions. 
 
 
 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Complex Data Rule     model reference   
     
   
   
    An XSLT based rule used for enforcing rules on data (calculated fields). 
Input context: Full document 
It is added as a normal data structure rule with the difference that the TargetField a…
   
 

 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Condition Rule     model reference   
     
   
   
    An XPath based rule that always returns a boolean value. 
Input context: Full document. /ROOT/value in case of simple data types (string, integer etc.) 
  Used in

 Sequential workflow task  sta…
   
 

 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Entity Rule     model reference   
     
   
   
    An XPath based rule is used for evaluating entity-level conditions. 
Input context: /row (e.g. /row/@EntityFieldName) 
  Used In

 Entity Row Level Security  rule
 Conditional Formating Rule  cond…
   
 

 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Simple Data Rule     model reference   
     
   
   
    An XPath based rule used for enforcing rules on data (calculated fields). 
Input context: Full document
   
 

 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Validation Rule     model reference   
     
   
   
    An XSLT based rule that returns a RuleExceptionDataCollection type. 
The collection looks like this in the xslt. 
<RuleExceptionDataCollection xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" xm…
   
 

 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Validation Rule Lookup XPath     model reference   
     
   
   
    An XPath that should return a string containing a Validation Rule. 
Typically this will be a lookupValue function that will load the user-created validation rule from the database. 
  Used In

…
   
 
