# How to use Rules

URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-use-rules/4365

@vikter (2026-01-22 15:47:25Z):
   
 This article demonstrates how to create and use different types of rules in ORIGAM. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for proceeding 
 To follow along, you must meet the following prerequisites: 
 
  Running database server  
  Running ORIGAM Server  
  Project created in ORIGAM Architect  
  Entity with data created  
 
 
 As an example, we will use the  task manager from the initial tutorial . 
   Introduction 
 There are several different types of  rules  in the ORIGAM platform. These rules are primarily used for: 
 
  Calculating values  
  Validating values  
  Evaluating whether conditions are fulfilled  
  Activating and deactivating elements in the user interface  
 
 Rules are mainly used for the following model elements: 
 
 Workflows 
 Data structures 
 Row-level security — determining under which conditions are data on the level of individual rows visible or can be changed 
 
 They are also sometimes used for: 
 
 Screen references in the menu — Rule set or Selection dialog 
 API — validation of input data for the PUT method 
 UI — visibility of action buttons, confirmation before executing an action 
 
 Rules work either with XPath, which returns a single value using a simple formula, or with a condition that is evaluated as true or false. However, they can also work with the entire data structure (the XML tree) and use more complex XSL transformations (XSLT). 
 Rules can be used not only to check data, calculate values, and evaluate conditions, but also to change data. In some cases, other approaches can be used to calculate values (for example XSLT or custom functions). However, if you want to perform automatic calculations during UI data entry, you need to use a rule. Similarly, if you want to reuse the same formula across multiple transformations, using a rule is recommended. 
 Overall, ORIGAM works with the following types of rules: 
 
 
  Simple data rule  
XPath-based rule used for enforcing rules on data (calculated fields) 
 
 
  Condition rule  
XPath-based rule that always returns a boolean value (True/False) 
 
 
  Validation rule  
XSLT-based rule that returns an error or a warning when defined conditions are met 
 
 
  Entity rule  
XPath-based rule used for evaluating entity-level conditions 
 
 
  Complex data rule  
XSLT-based rule used for enforcing rules on data (multiple calculated fields at once) 
 
 
  Validation rule lookup XPath  
XPath function that returns a string containing a Validation Rule 
 
 
 The documentation also mentions another type of rule, namely the  Data structure rule . Technically speaking, this is a Simple data rule or a Complex cata rule that is a part of the Data structure Rule set. 
   Simple data rule 
 A  Simple data rule  is similar to a  formula  in a spreadsheet — it calculates a value based on other values, usually fields. Simple data rule is always  used in a Data structure Rule set . 
 For example: total price = quantity * unit price. Technically, this formula is based on XPath and its result is typically a single numeric value. 
 Another example is shown below. This rule calculates how many days remain until a task is due, counting from today: 
  


[Image: https://community.origam.com/uploads/default/original/2X/9/9132ac99b04ec24fe1690efd40424febd4503954.png]
Description: The image displays a configuration interface for a data rule titled "ComputeDaysToDueDate". Under the section labeled "(Info)", it lists attributes such as "Ancestors" set to False, "Inheritable" set to False, and "Name" as ComputeDaysToDueDate. In the "Misc" section, "IsPathRelative" is marked as True, and "XPath" shows AS:DifferenceInDays(date:date().@DueDate). The "Rule" section specifies that the "DataType" is Integer, and "Structure" is noted but not elaborated. The overall apparent purpose of this interface is to define a computation rule related to determining the number of days until a due date.


  
 Notes: 
 
  IsPathRelative  means that you can use a path starting from the current XML node and do not need to start with  ROOT  
  XPath  contains the formula written in valid XPath; in this case, ORIGAM’s custom function  AS:DifferenceInDays  is used 
  DataType  is set to Integer, as the function returns a whole number; the data type has to be of the same type as the field that is filled with the calculation 
 
 Using the rule in a  Data Structure   Rule Set : 
  

