# How to create a new Project

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-create-a-new-project/3903

@vikter (2025-01-13 09:02:39Z):
   
 This tutorial will guide you step by step through the process of setting up a new project in ORIGAM Architect. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for further work 
To proceed, you need: 
 
  A running database server  
 
 
   Run the wizard 
 You can find the option to create a new project – that is, a new application or system – in the main menu under File. 
          Main menu in Architect  386×321 8.43 KB         
 When you launch Architect for the first time, the wizard for creating a new project will start automatically. 
   Name your project 
 Enter a name for your project. Be sure to choose the name carefully, as changing it later will be very challenging. 
          Project name  786×593 7.63 KB         
   Connect the database 
 The next step is to configure the database connection. In this example, we will use an MS SQL server running locally in a Docker container. 
          Database connection  786×593 9.74 KB         
 You need to enter the username and password that you created when  setting up your database server . If these details are incorrect, you will not be able to complete the creation of the new project. 
 
 
Want to use PostgreSQL? 
 In that case, select PostgreSQL as the Database and then later in the already created project, edit the configuration in OrigamSettings.config - Data Connection, both  DataConnectionString  and  DataDataService , plus  DeployPlatforms . In addition to that you need to set the DatabaseType property in the Docker .env file to “postgresql“. 
 
   Create app user 
 In this step, you will create an account for the first user in your future application. 
          First user creation  786×593 10.1 KB         
 Make sure to remember or write down the login name and password, as you will need them later to log in to your application: 
          Application login  1478×912 39.1 KB         
   Save your model 
 At this stage, Architect will create a  Git repository  for your project and configure your username and email for it. 
 If you do not wish to create a repository, simply uncheck this option. 
          Repository and model location  786×593 9.36 KB         
 You will also need to choose the location for your project model. 
 You can leave the project folder as is or select your own. Since we will build on this setup in future tutorials, it is recommended to keep the default settings. 
   Complete the process 
 Now, just run the final step, and your project will be created. If your database connection is correctly configured, the process should finish successfully. 
          Process finalization  786×593 10.2 KB         
 If any issues arise, use the arrow above to return to the appropriate step, adjust the settings, and run the final process again. 
          New project successfully created  788×593 13.5 KB         
 Once your project is created, you can begin development.