# How to use deployment scripts

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-use-deployment-scripts/3980

@vikter (2025-02-27 09:31:18Z):
   
 This guide demonstrates how changes to the underlying data structure of your application are deployed to the database. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for further work 
 To follow along, you must meet the following prerequisites: 
 
  Running database server  
  Running ORIGAM Server  
  Project created in ORIGAM Architect  
  Entity with fields created  
 
 
 In ORIGAM, an application consists of a model, which holds structures such as data, user interface, business logic, and APIs, and a database that stores all the data, including both default and user-created data. 
 While developing the client application in ORIGAM Architect, the external database is built and gradually extended. Whenever you add a new Entity, Field, Foreign Key, or Index, these changes need to be reflected in the database as well. 
 This process is managed using deployment scripts with SQL commands that the platform automatically generates for you. In the following sections, we will demonstrate how to work with the Deployment Scripts Generator tool and observe its impact on the database. 
   Deployment Script Generator 
 The Deployment Script Generator is a tool that does exactly what its name implies—generates deployment scripts. You can find it in the Architect’s main menu under  Tools : 
          Tools in the main Menu  420×278 9.21 KB         
 In the Generator, you can filter three different groups of items: 
          Deployment Script Generator filter  179×122 2.82 KB         
   Filter: Missing in Database 
 The first category is the most relevant for this tutorial. It displays all items that are present in your model but not in the database. This typically occurs when you add a new object like an Entity or Field or establish a Foreign Key relationship between two entities. In this example, we added a new  Project  entity with several Fields, including a Foreign Key ( _Id ): 
          A new Entity in the Model Browser  254×486 8.89 KB         
   Script Generation 
 To generate the script, open the Deployment Script Generator and select the  Missing in Database  filter, if it’s not already selected. The Entity we created for this example will be listed: 
          Missing in Database filter  592×164 5.78 KB         
 Now, let’s take a look at the script it generates. Select your entity and click the  Preview  button: 
          Missing in Database - Preview  317×333 6.51 KB         
 Afterward, you will see the SQL script generated by the Generator in the right bar: 
          SQL script output example  440×338 6.06 KB         
 The first part of the script creates a new database table and fields for it, including both user-generated fields like  Name  and  Description  as well as default fields like  Id  or  RecordCreated . 
 The second part (ALTER TABLE) defines a Foreign Key for one of the fields in the Entity. 
   Script Deployment 
 You can either edit the script or execute it as-is. To execute it, select the script and click the  Add to Deployment  button. 
 In the next step, confirm that you want to add the items to the search results, as we need to review them: 
          Deployment Script generation dialog  407×152 5.61 KB         
 By doing this, the generated scripts will appear in the  Found Results  tab in the right bar: 
   
 Double-click on one of the items, and you will be directed to the Deployment section of the Model Browser, where you can see your new deployment scripts at the end of the list, alongside all previously created scripts: 
          All deployment scripts in the Model Browser  414×451 10.1 KB         
 If you want to view or edit the script before executing it, double-click on its name to open it in the editor. There, you can review the following: 
          Script editor  564×377 18 KB         
 This is the table creation script. The other script defines the foreign key: 
          Script editor #2  620×349 12.4 KB         
   Script Execution 
 Scripts must be executed in the order in which they were created, which you can identify by the script numbering: 
          Deployment Script numbering  341×264 3.86 KB         
 To execute a script, right-click its name and select  Execute  or press  Ctrl+X : 
          Execute Script  432×774 22.2 KB         
 If nothing visible happens, the script was executed successfully. 