 related deployment scripts and use the  Order  property to sort all your Menu Items. 
 
 
  Create a new User Role and User  to manage access. 
 Create a role like  StandardUser , assign it your new Application Roles, and add the default  FRM_UserProfile  role so users can edit their profile. 
 Create a user, assign the  StandardUser  role, and activate it. Now you should have both an admin (SuperUser) and a regular user. 
 After restarting the ORIGAM Server, log in as the  StandardUser  to see your new menu items. 
 
 
 Fill in and configure dropdown menus for better usability. 
 Populate  Priorities  (e.g.  Low ,  Mid ,  High ) and  Statuses  (e.g.  New ,  In Progress ,  Done ), including  Color  and  Order . 
  Order the dropdowns  and set the default status value to  New . 
  Filter items  in the  Assigned to  menu to exclude system users (filter for those with email filled in). 
 
 
  Set up record ordering  to make sorting easier. 
 Set the  OrderMember  property in both  Status  and  Priority  Screens and hide the  Order  field in the interface. 
 
 
  1. Fine-tune some details  and shorten the date format  of the field  Due date  in the Task form, as well as order the fields in all of your forms. 
 
 
  Save new version in Git  to track your progress. 
 
 
  Set up the client application  for a better user experience. 
 You can, for example, change the language, set a custom logo, or extend session expiration. 
 Check your application to make sure all changes were applied. 
 
 
  Analyze and fix errors  to understand basic troubleshooting in Docker. 
 Even if everything worked fine, it’s useful to learn how to handle issues — you’ll need it eventually. 
 
 
  Create new model version  to prepare for the next development phase. 
 Create version  1.0.1  and set it as the current version. 
 
 
  Delete all training projects  to clean up unused resources. 
 You may not need this yet, but it’s good to know how. 
 
 
  Upgrade the platform  to get the latest features. 
 Even if you’re on the latest version now, learning the upgrade process is recommended. 
 
 
  Start using the client application , play around with it, and refine the details. 
 
 
   Launch 
 Until now, you’ve been running your application locally. At some point, you’ll need to deploy it to another environment for production use and access by other users. This is a key moment where you test the completeness and deployability of your model. This corresponds to step 7 in the development process and includes any further development. 
 ~ 
 
   If you have successfully created your first application, you can publish it now. To do so, continue to the next chapter  Publishing your application  (TBD).