# Work Queue Commands

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/work-queue-commands/2442

@system (2017-12-31 23:00:00Z):
 A command is an action that can be executed on a work queue message. It can be either a built-in action (move to queue, change record’s value) or a custom action based on a sequential workflow. 
 Command definition can be configured for a class in the  Commands  tab in the  WorkQueuesConfiguration  screen section (Konfigurace front zpráv) with the following fields: 
 
 
 
 
 Field name 
 Data type 
 Description 
 
 
 
 
 Order 
 Int 
 Order of autoprocessing, see  Autoprocess  field for more details 
 
 
 Text 
 String 
 Caption of command to be shown to the users 
 
 
 Type 
 enum, one of  QueueCommand ,  Remove ,   Archive To Queue ,  Execute Queue  Loader ,  Move To Queue ,   Run Notifications  and  Status Change  
 Type of the command. 
 
 
 Command 
 String 
 Name of the model element to be triggererd. Valid for  Type   QueueCommand  
 
 
 Parametr 1 
 String 
 Value to be send to the workflow command as  Parameter1 . For each command type it has a different meaning. Parameter is sent as-is, so ti’s a constant value. 
 
 
 Parameter 2 
 String 
 Value to be send to the the workflow command as  Parameter2 . For each command type it has a different meaning. Parameter is sent as-is, so ti’s a constant value. 
 
 
 Roles 
 String 
 List of Application Roles capable to view and run the command in a standard Origam format 
 
 
 Autoprocess 
 Bool 
 If at least one command is checked, the queue messages will be autoprocessed. Each message is autoprocessd by all the commands that are checked by this in the ascending order of  Order  column. All the commands are processed in one database transaction. It’s necessary to ensure, that the command or group of commands beeing part of autoprocessing must manage the message to dissapear from the queue,  or fail. Otherwise, the processing of message will loop indefinitely 
 
 
 Autoprocess With Errors 
 Bool 
 Normally, failed messages aren’t autprocessed. This behaviour can be overriden. It’s very dangerous to use, because the processing must not fail. Otherwise, the processing of message will loop indefinitely 
 
 
 Default 
 Bool 
 If checked, the command can be triggered by doubleclicking the row or pressing enter instead of click on the command button 
 
 
 Error Queue 
 Guid (reference to other work queue) 
 Optional, If defined, the message is moved to the queue defined here in case of error during processing the message (both automatic or manual) 
 
 
 Autoprocessing Condition 
 String 
 Xpath being evaluated over a context store of current work queue entry loaded as a work queue datastructure (defined in the WorkQueueClass model element). The datastructure name typically begins with  WQ_ . XPath is triggered from the position  /ROOT/WorkQueueEntry . So an exapmple of xpath woud be.:  @Quantity > 0 . Warning: Once you decide to use  Autoprocess condition  it is necessary to ensure, that the workqueue entry is processed by some command and is being managed to disappear from the queue. So, for our example, it’s  necessary  to define a command with  Autoprocess condition  set to  @Quantity <= 0 , or without any condition, otherwise the whole work queue processing stucks indefinitely on the message with Quantity <= 0 
 
 
 
 