# How to rename database entities and fields

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-rename-database-entities-and-fields/4409

@vikter (2026-03-03 10:34:42Z):
   
 In this tutorial, we demonstrate how to work with entity and field names that already exist in the model and have been deployed in the database. The tutorial is based on the  Task Manager tutorial application . 
 To be clear — in general, we strongly advise against renaming entities or fields in real projects; it is always better to avoid doing so. However, if a situation truly requires it, or if you simply want to experiment in a testing project, the following procedure describes how to proceed. 
   Initial analysis 
 Before renaming anything, you need to identify all relevant impacts and dependencies. ORIGAM provides two functions for this purpose: 
 
  Find Dependencies  
  Find References  
 
 If you right-click a database entity, for example, you will see these options: 
          Database entity context menu  336×367 47.6 KB         
 The first function shows what the selected element depends on. In the case of database entities, this typically includes the base system entity  iOrigamEntity2 . 
 For renaming entities, you will mainly use the second function,  Find References , which displays all elements that reference the object you intend to rename. For example: 
          Found references  478×150 31.5 KB         
 In the case of a database field, there are usually multiple dependencies, since fields are used in many model elements: 
          Field dependencies  472×148 32.7 KB         
 These are the model elements that must be updated after the name change. In addition, there are indirect dependencies not shown here, and — very importantly — the related tables and columns in the database. 
 If there are too many dependencies, you may want to reconsider the renaming, as each dependency represents a required modification. 
   Model element name changes 
 Renaming an element in the Model Browser is technically the simplest part of the process — just click the name and change it. 
 In this example, we rename the entity  Status  to  TaskStatus  and the field  Task.refStatusId  to  Task.refTaskStatusId . 
 Immediately after performing such a change, the application becomes inconsistent. If you attempt to open a form related to the renamed entity in the client application, you will encounter an error: 
          Server error after entity renaming  733×101 3.59 KB         
 A similar situation occurs when renaming a field: 
          Client application error  520×177 3.5 KB         
 Let’s fix this step by step. 
   Database object name changes 
 The first issue to resolve is the database. Referencing a non-existing table or column is a critical problem. 
 In principle, you have two options — perform the change manually or use a deployment script. The recommended approach is clear, but for testing purposes you may also try the manual method. 
   Manual procedure 
 Below is an example SQL script for renaming a table in MS SQL Server. You can execute it directly in the database query tool: 
  USE [taskman];
GO
EXEC sp_rename 'dbo.Status', 'TaskStatus';
GO
  
 Similarly, to rename a database column: 
  USE [taskman];
GO
EXEC sp_rename 
    'dbo.Task.refStatusId', 
    'refTaskStatusId', 
    'COLUMN';
GO
  
   Using deployment scripts 
 To ensure that the change is propagated to all database instances associated with the application model, you should create a new  Service Command Update Activity : 
          Creation of a new deployment script  546×122 29.3 KB         
 When using a deployment script within the model, you do not need the  USE  or  GO  commands: 
          New deployment script  772×293 40.9 KB         
 Be sure to provide the script with a meaningful name. 
 The same approach applies to renaming a database column: 
          Deployment script for database field name change  537×322 43.8 KB         
 After renaming an entity, updating the corresponding table name in the database is usually sufficient for the application to run again. 
 Renaming a field is typically more complex, as field names are referenced in many other model elements (lookups, data structures, constants, etc.), especially if the field represents a foreign key, as in our example. 
   Model adaptation 
 After renaming a model element, you must update all dependencies. There are two main reasons: 
 
 To maintain model consistency — model elements are technically referenced by their unique IDs (GUIDs), so functionality is preserved. 
 To maintain clear and consistent naming — updating names across interdependent elements improves model readability and navigation. 