# How to version your application model

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/how-to-version-your-application-model/3995

@vikter (2025-04-11 08:51:36Z):
   
 This guide explains and demonstrates how application model versioning works in ORIGAM, and what steps you need to take in order to collaborate effectively with other team members. 
 
 [!success]- Prerequisites for proceeding 
 Before proceeding, ensure you meet the following prerequisites: 
 
  Database server installed  
  ORIGAM Server installed  
  ORIGAM Architect installed  
  Project created in ORIGAM Architect  
 
 
 To maintain consistency across the development environment, the versions of all major components should be synchronized: 
 
 Application Model 
 Application Database 
 ORIGAM Server 
 ORIGAM Architect 
 Metamodel 
 
 Instructions for upgrading the ORIGAM Server, Architect and metamodel are provided in a separate  article . This guide focuses on versioning your application models and their databases. 
 The purpose of versioning your models is to keep them aligned with the database and the development platform versions across all environments (such as development, testing, and production), especially when multiple team members are involved. 
 Model versioning ensures synchronization among all activities related to model and database development throughout the entire process, regardless of the number of contributors. 
   Versioning Basics 
 It is standard practice for version numbers to consist of three digits separated by periods, which represent: 
 
 Major update 
 Minor update 
 Fix 
 
 To check the package versions, navigate to the Architect’s  Packages  tab, where you can see the versions of all packages included in your application project — both default and those created by you: 
          Packages and versions  239×226 3.43 KB         
 The initial version of your application package is 1.0.0 by default. If you examine the versions of existing default packages, you will notice that some, like Root or Security, have undergone several updates. 
   The Versioning Process 
 We recommend creating a new model version whenever the database (structure or content) is changed, which also involves creating a new  deployment script . 
 The process is as follows: 
 
 Create a new deployment version. 
 Set that version as the current version. 
 Add a new deployment script. 
 Commit and push the changes in Git. 
 
 Follow these steps whenever you plan to make changes to your application that affect the database. This ensures consistency across all environments and for all collaborators. 
   New Version Creation 
 You can view your application’s deployment versions in the Architect’s  Model Browser  under your application’s package, in the  Common  /  Deployment  section: 
          Application deployment versions  206×315 7.54 KB         
 Double-click on the version name (e.g. 1.0.0) to view its properties in the property editor: 
          Deployment Version properties  477×291 8.15 KB         
 The  Name  field holds the version name used in the model. You can either retain the numbering or add additional information, such as “1.1.0 version with Projects.” 
 The  VersionString  field contains a value that is checked against  OrigamModelVersion  database table when you open a package in the Architect. It is compared to determine if the model has the same version as the database or not. 
 A version’s content consists of deployment scripts that update the database’s structure or content, for example: 
          Deployment scripts  395×361 7.93 KB         
 To create a new deployment version (a new version of your application’s model), right-click on your package’s name and select  New  /  Deployment Version : 
          New Deployment Version  373×324 12.3 KB         
 After filling in the  Name  and  VersionString  fields and saving it, you will have created a new version for your new deployment scripts: 
          New Deployment Version #2  163×160 3.59 KB         
   Version Upgrade 
 After creating a new version, you must set it as the current version. Only then will any new deployment scripts be saved under that version, and all environments will be updated to it, or at least notified that a new version is available. 
 If this step is skipped, newly generated deployment scripts will be saved under the previous version (set as current) and will not be automatically executed which may result in version conflicts across all development environments. 
 To set the newly created version as the current version, use the  Make Version Current  button on the toolbar: 
          Make Version Current in toolbar  355×337 9.27 KB         
 Alternatively, you can use  Actions  /  Make Version Current  after right-clicking on the version name in the Model Browser: 
          Make Version Current in Model Browser  361×318 11.3 KB         
 Once set, opening a package in Architect will compare the model version with the database and offer running any scripts if the model version is higher than the database version. This mechanism ensures the model and database versions are in sync. 
 Deployment scripts can also be executed automatically when the application starts. To enable this, change the OrigamSettings.config file for the Server. Set the following value in the  Services  section: 
  ExecuteUpgradeScriptsOnStart = True  
 This setting will execute the deployment scripts automatically without any notification. If set to  False , no updates will be executed and the older version of the application will run, potentially causing conflicts, e.g. a screen will fail to open when you have added a new field in the model, but didn’t add it to the database. 
 When a new version is created and set as current, the following actions occur: 
 
 The Deployment Script Generator will automatically prompt to save new scripts to the current version: 
 
          Deployment Script Generator  185×264 3.84 KB         
 
 
 The current version will be compared with the database when opening the project in Architect or running it in the Server. 
 
 
 The current version will display a different icon: 
 
 
          Versions in Model Browser  161×184 3.62 KB         
 
 The  dbo.OrigamModelVersion  table in the database will be updated: 
 
          Table dbo.OrigamModelVersion  757×163 11.2 KB         
 
 The file  OrigamProjects\MyApplication\model\myapplication\.origam.Package  will be modified: 
 
          File .origam.Package  753×256 8.03 KB