# Screens

Category: docs
URL: https://community.origam.com/t/screens/2355

@system (2017-12-31 23:00:00Z):
 A Screen is a collection of  screen sections  and other  widgets  built on a  data structure  definition. 
 This means that a form can display different entities and specific rows of these entities. Screens make also use of the  relationships  between the entities, which allow seamless master-detail navigation scenarios. Creating multi-level master-detail forms is very easy. 
 Screens are mostly assembled from screen sections (screen section instance is a link to a Screen Section Definition so you can reuse screen sections in multiple screens). To make the user interface more intuitive and readable for the user, additional widgets like  Tab Control  or  Split Panel  can be used. 
   Extensibility 
 If you are using a package which has a screen defined and you want for example, to add a new tab to the screen with your own customized section or you want to provide your screen section instead of the provided one you can do so by using  Alternatives . 
 You can create a screen alternative by right-clicking on your screen element and selecting  New > Alternative . A new version of the original screen will be created in your package. This version will be used instead of the original version. You can make as many edits to it as you want. If the original screen is updated (new widgets added) your version will stay intact (you will need to add those widgets manually for the screen alternative you created). 
   Usage 
 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       Screen Menu Item     model reference   
     
   
   
    This menu assigns a Screen that will open when the user executes the  menu  item. 
  Attributes










Screen
Screen to be displayed.


ReadOnlyAccess
Defines if the user will be able to save…
   
 

 
   
      
               1150×1150 16.3 KB        
     
       User Interface Task     model reference   
     
   
   
    This task shows the user a  screen . The workflow stops executing and waits until the user finishes interacting with the screen. The data loaded to the screen is based on the OutputContextStor…
   
 
